Add edge n-gram token filter docs #7980 (#8025)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _analyzers/token-filters/edge-ngram.md

---
layout: default
title: Edge n-gram
parent: Token filters
nav_order: 120
---
# Edge n-gram token filter

> The `edge_ngram` token filter is very similar to `ngram` token filter where a particular string is split into a substrings of different length. The `edge_ngram` token filter, however, generates n-grams (substrings) only from the beginning (edge) of a token. It's particularly useful in scenarios like autocomplete or prefix matching, where you want to match the start of words or phrases as the user types them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `edge_ngram` token filter is very similar to the `ngram` token filter, where a particular string is split into substrings of different lengths. The `edge_ngram` token filter, however, generates n-grams (substrings) only from the beginning (edge) of a token. It's particularly useful in scenarios like autocomplete or prefix matching, where you want to match the beginning of words or phrases as the user types them.
```

## Parameters

The `edge_ngram` token filter can be configured with the following parameters.

Parameter | Required/Optional | Data type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :--- 
`min_gram` | Optional | Integer | The minimum length of the n-grams that will be generated. Default is `1`.
`max_gram` | Optional | Integer | The maximum length of the n-grams that will be generated. Default is `1` for the `edge_ngram` filter and `2` for custom token filters. Avoid setting this parameter to a low value. If the value is set too low, only very short n-grams will be generated and the search term will not be found. For example, if `max_gram` is set to `3` and you index the word "banana", the longest generated token will be "ban". If the user searches for "banana", no matches will be returned. You can use the `truncate` token filter as a search analyzer to mitigate this risk.

> `preserve_original` | Optional | Boolean | Include the original token in the output. Default is `false` .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`preserve_original` | Optional | Boolean | Includes the original token in the output. Default is `false` .
```

## Example

> The following example request creates a new index named `edge_ngram_example` and configures an analyzer with `edge_ngram` filter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example request creates a new index named `edge_ngram_example` and configures an analyzer with the `edge_ngram` filter:
```

---
layout: default
title: Edge ngram
parent: Token filters
nav_order: 120
---
<!-- vale off -->
# Edge ngram token filter
<!-- vale on -->
The `edge_ngram` token filter generates n-grams (substrings) from the beginning (edge) of a token. It's particularly useful in scenarios like autocomplete or prefix matching, where you want to match the start of words or phrases as the user types.

> 

Reviewer 2: Could you add a sentence about the difference between this token filter and the `ngram` token filter? We should also link to the `ngram` token filter when it is merged and also link to the search as you type page because this functionality is useful for that (https://opensearch.org/docs/2.17/search-plugins/searching-data/autocomplete/#search-as-you-type).

## Parameters

The `edge_ngram` token filter can be configured with the following parameters.

Parameter | Required/Optional | Data type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :--- 
`min_gram` | Optional | Integer | The minimum length of the n-grams that will be generated. Default is `1`.

> `max_gram` | Optional | Integer | The maximum length of the n-grams that will be generated. Default is `1`. Beware of setting this value too low, as any searches that exceed this value will not be found, as that token would not exist. For example if `max_gram` is set to `3` and the word "banana" is indexed, longest token that will be created is "ban". If the user searches for "banana", no matches will be found. You can use `truncate` token filter as search analyzer to mitigate this risk.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`max_gram` | Optional | Integer | The maximum length of the n-grams that will be generated. Default is `1` for the `edge_ngram` filter and `2` for custom token filters. Avoid setting this parameter to a low value. If the value is set too low, only very short n-grams will be generated and the search term will not be found. For example, if `max_gram` is set to `3` and you index the word "banana", the longest generated token will be "ban". If the user searches for "banana", no matches will be returned. You can use the `truncate` token filter as a search analyzer to mitigate this risk.
```
